Welcome, dear brothers and sisters, to our update.
We'd like to begin with a brief report about some of the disasters that have continued
to affect our brothers recently.
In September, our brothers in Greece faced heavy rain and severe flooding.
On October, our brothers in Mexico dealt with a category 5 hurricane, which caused widespread
damage.
And in November, our brothers in the Philippines experienced a magnitude 6.7 earthquake.
Sadly, as a result of the earthquake, one of our dear sisters died.
And 10 brothers and sisters were injured.
We continued to pray for those affected by the many disasters happening around the world.
But we thank all of you for your support and prayers.
Some of you are working hard with disaster relief.
Many more of you are making generous donations, which allow us to provide the necessities for
our brothers and sisters and to rebuild their homes and kingdom halls.
We're so grateful for your help.
On behalf of the governing body, we say, thank you.
But now for the rest of our update, let's discuss the theme.
We recommend ourselves as God's ministers.
This is based on 2 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 4, where the Apostle Paul said, in every
way, we recommend ourselves as God's ministers.
What does that mean?
The study note in this verse says, the Greek verb rendered we recommend ourselves conveys
the idea we prove or show ourselves to be.
But how do we show ourselves to be ministers of the true God?
One important way is by our appearance.
We all want to reflect well on the God we love and worship.
How do we do that?
By following Bible principles, for example, consider the principle recorded at 1 Timothy
chapter 2 verses 9 and 10.
Likewise, the women should adorn themselves in appropriate dress with modesty and soundness
of mind, not with styles of hairbrading and gold or pearls or very expensive clothing.
But in a way that is proper for women professing devotion to God, namely through good works.
Although that counsel is directed to Christian women, the principle applies equally to men
and women.
The only way all of us can recommend ourselves as God's ministers is by making sure that
our appearance is appropriate and modest reflecting soundness of mind.
But does that mean that all of Jehovah's Witnesses make the same choices?
Should we wear a uniform?
Or adopt a single form of appropriate dress and grooming?
Of course not.
There well over 8 million of Jehovah's Witnesses worldwide and we have a wide range of cultures.
Jehovah has drawn these millions of people and he loves variety.
But now we ask, what about the wearing of a beard?
Is that an appropriate choice for a brother to make?
To help us answer that question, let's watch the following video which reviews the history
of beards among Jehovah's people.
In patriarchal times, it was customary for men to wear beards.
This practice continued among the Israelites.
An Israelite man would shave only when he was humiliated or grieving.
For example, when the King of Ammon humiliated David's servants by shaving their beards,
David protected their dignity by telling them, stay in Jericho until your beards grow back
and then return.
These later, the prophet Ezekiel shaved his beard and his head to symbolize the great distress
and grief that would soon afflict Jerusalem.
What about Jesus?
Did he too, as an Israelite, wear a beard?
For some years, based on the conclusions of certain archaeologists, our publications most
often portrayed Jesus as clean shaven.
In 1968, the watchtower considered more reliable evidence from both historical sources and
the scriptures.
None of the four gospels indicate that Jesus' appearance stood out as different.
He did what was customary among Jewish men at that time.
He wore a beard.
Our videos and artwork in our publications ever since have consistently portrayed Jesus
with a well-gruned beard.
By the time the Christian congregation was established, the Romans had adopted the practice
of shaving.
Were Jewish Christians then expected to shave, or were Gentile Christians expected to grow
beards in order to blend in with their Jewish brothers?
Evidently not.
Since the scriptures neither command true worshipers to grow a beard, nor command them to shave,
this was a matter of personal decision.
In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, beards were common even among the Bible students,
as seen in these photos of pilgrim brothers who traveled for the organization.
Brother Russell II wore a beard.
One newspaper editor called him a well-gruned minister.
He said,
It had never occurred to me he was any different from thousands of other preachers.
His soft white-flowing beard is the beard of a patriarch, a father.
It gives you confidence.
Soon after World War I, shaving enjoyed a resurgence in popularity.
In 1919, when this photo of the pilgrims was taken, most did not have a beard.
Therefore, although our publications said little about the subject at the time, very few
brothers grew beards.
Starting in the 1960s, in many lands, beards became associated with those who were rebelling
against established authority.
Where that was the case, most men, both witnesses and non-witnesses, chose to shave.
Because of the negative connotations associated with wearing a beard, most brothers who wore
a beard did not serve as ministerial servants, elders, or in other appointed positions.
With the passing of time, in some lands, beards became more common and were not associated
with rebellion.
In those places, some brothers with beards were appointed as ministerial servants and elders.
In recent times, the wearing of a beard has become common in many more lands.
So how should we view a brother who chooses to grow a beard today?
The video ended with an intriguing question.
How should we view a brother who chooses to grow a beard today?
The governing body has asked me to read the following announcement.
A number of branch offices around the world have written to us, indicating that there
continue to be questions about whether or not it is proper for a brother in an appointed
position to wear a beard.
After prayerful consideration, the governing body has concluded that there is an need to
clarify this matter.
The governing body does not have an issue with brothers wearing beards.
Why not?
Because the scriptures do not condemn the wearing of beards.
Furthermore, as time has passed, we have noted that in many lands it is acceptable for men
who hold responsible positions in business and government to wear beards.
Thus, whether a brother wears a beard is a personal decision.
A brother's qualifications deserve as an elder or ministerial servant or based on his
spirituality, not on whether he chooses to wear a beard.
This direction also applies to special full-time servants at Bethel, and those in the field
including special pioneers, missionaries, and circuit overseers.
In harmony with Romans 144, neither the elders nor any other Christian should feel compelled
to judge a brother who chooses to wear a beard.
We trust that these comments will help us to remain on guard against anything that might
cause division among Jehovah's people, end of the announcement from the governing body.
This direction, however, may raise some questions.
For example, here's one.
Why is the governing body providing this direction at this time?
Well, as recorded at 1 Corinthians 7.31, the Apostle Paul was inspired to write,
the scene of this world is changing.
The study note in that verse shows that Paul may have been alluding to the way that
scenes change swiftly in a theater, with actors passing quickly on and off the stage.
In keeping with the principle of Paul's inspired statement, grooming styles have changed
over the years.
For example, more and more beards are worn by men in responsible positions who project
a respectable appearance.
Here's another question.
How should we view a brother who decides to grow a beard?
Well, we should apply Jesus' counsel, founded John 724, stop judging by the outward appearance.
As we saw in the video, grooming styles have changed over time.
Not all of such changes are bad.
To illustrate, none of us would likely choose to dress and groom ourselves as people did
in Bible times, nor even as people did a century ago.
In fact, most choose to follow the styles that are prevalent now, not those from decades
past.
Generally speaking, it's not bad or wrong to dress and groom ourselves as people in our
community commonly do.
As long as that style does not violate Bible principles.
We always want to be sure that our appearance reflects cleanliness, modesty, and soundness
of mind.
Here's another question.
How can we promote unity in light of this direction?
After viewing this program, some might have to contend with strong feelings.
For example, some might feel as though they've been vindicated, saying in effect, this
is what I've been saying for a long time.
This proves that I was right all along.
Others might feel disappointed, saying in effect, I supported the policy about grooming
for all those years.
Now, I'll feel that down.
But is either reaction appropriate?
Not really.
Not what the Apostle Paul was inspired to write at 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse
number 10.
Now I urge you, brothers, through the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you should all
speak in agreement and that there should be no divisions among you, but that you may
be completely united in the same mind and in the same line of thought.
How does that principle apply here?
Well, if we've been promoting our own opinion on this subject, contradicting the guidance
from the organization, have we been promoting unity?
Have we up the Brotherhood to be completely united in the same line of thought?
Clearly not.
Any who've done so need to adjust their thinking and attitude.
On the other hand, if we've loyally supported the organization's direction over the years,
do we have any scriptural reason to regret our course?
Certainly not.
Jehovah values our loyal service.
He also appreciates our humble willingness to be obedient and submissive to the direction
we receive from God's organization.
Back in the first century CE, some Christians allowed the issue of circumcision to cause
division, but the Holy Spirit directed the governing body to resolve that issue and
promote unity.
Similarly, the governing body today is striving to promote unity.
We would never want the matter of beards to cause division among us.
All of us need to remember that the earthly part of Jehovah's organization is always
striving to reflect the heavenly part, to keep up with it as it were.
Remember how fast the chariot and Ezekiel's vision moved like flashes of lightning?
Any who seek to run ahead of that chariot, trying to force change prematurely, or who lag
behind, hesitating to support changes that have come from the fateful slave, are not keeping
pace with Jehovah's organization.
In conclusion, are we not grateful for this balanced erection regarding beards?
Jehovah has dignified us.
He allows each brother the freedom to choose whether or not he will wear a beard.
Consider confident that all of you are determined to keep pace, adjust your views as needed,
and continue to serve Jehovah loyally, promoting love and unity among your brothers and sisters.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.